Welcome to Auto Layout by Example.
My name is Kevin Cathey.
I'm one of the interface
builder engineers.
And here's what I want to do today.
We've had two
Auto Layout sessions so far,
right?
We've had an introductory
session and we've had a
mastering best practices session.
And we've thrown a lot of content at you.
And what I want to do in this session
is I want to take a lot of that content,
bring it all together,
and answer the question,
"How do I do that?" So we're going to
be looking at a lot of different demos,
a lot of scenarios, and we're just going
to power through this.
I have a lot of content to cover.
I'm just going to warn you guys up front.
We're going to be going fast.
For those of you watching the videos,
no problem.
Just hit pause.
For those of you in the audience,
buckle up.
Here's what we're going to talk about.
We're going to talk about
transitioning to Auto Layout.
We're going to be looking at converting
part of an application to use
Auto Layout using some of the different
techniques that we talked about
in the mastering Auto Layout session.
Then we're going to move on
to talking about explicit
widths in interface builder.
How many of you guys had one of
those and wanted to get rid of it?
We're going to talk about how to do that.
Then we're going to look at localization
as our third topic and talk a little
bit more about the new localization
workflow in iOS 6 and OS X Mountain Lion.
Then we're going to move on to talk about
some new API in Mac OS X Mountain Lion,
particularly with splitview and
how this new API is going to
make your lives a lot easier.
And then finally,
we're going to wrap it up and we're
going to do a really quick breeze
through of some of the animation.
But let's dive in.
Let's talk about
transitioning to Auto Layout.
Let's have some fun while we do that.
All right.
How about that?
So transitioning to Auto Layout.
A couple different steps here.
First, you want to plan your attack and
choose do I want a partial conversion,
a full conversion?
Let me encourage you,
if you guys can do a full conversion,
you'll save your guys a lot of headaches.
But it might not be possible to
convert your entire app all at once.
That can be a huge cost
if you have a big app.
So we're going to actually be doing
a partial conversion in the demo app
that I'm going to be showing you today.
Another technique you can do is
actually convert -- or rather to adopt
Auto Layout as you add new -- UI.
For example, maybe you have a new window,
a new popover, something like that.
You can adopt it just in a new UI.
That's a great way to
get started as well.
So I'm going to go into a demo
and we're going to look at
turning on Auto Layout and your
interface builder documents.
We're going to look at the code,
we're going to test it,
and we're going to see this all at work.
So let's get started.
All right,
so this app might look a little familiar.
So we've been showing you
the SiteSeer application
throughout the conference so far.
The developer tools kick off,
the platforms kick off.
We were showing you the iOS version.
Now I also happen to
have an OS X version,
and so we're going to be going back and
forth between the two versions today to
look at some of this stuff in practice.
So if I look at my application,
really simple.
I have some landmarks.
I can add those to an itinerary.
So very simple application.
And this little piece right here,
this detail area here,
is not yet using Auto Layout.
And you can tell.
Because as I resize things around,
you can see it's not really
doing exactly what I want.
I can get this guy really small.
There's some clipping up at the top.
And, yeah,
I could write some code to fix this,
but we're going to turn on
Auto Layout and just let
Auto Layout do it for us.
So let's just dive in and do that.
All right,
so here's my interface in Xcode.
And, again, step one is to go into all
your interface documents,
your storyboards, your ZIP files,
and to check the box to use Auto Layout.
So I'm going to open the utilities area,
go to the file inspector.
And here in the interface
builder document slice,
I'm just going to check
the box to use Auto Layout.
And that's going to pick a set of default
constraints right out of the gate for us.
And we can preview this by
just resizing the window.
And you can see, okay,
it's doing something reasonable here.
It's, you know,
growing on exactly how we want.
And look at those labels
in the bottom left.
Eh,
that's not exactly what we want either.
So let's go ahead and modify
this to do what we want.
The first thing I want to do is
add some expression to my UI.
I want all these four views to
kind of grow proportionally both
vertically and horizontally.
Now, this was really hard
with springs and struts.
I had to write a lot of
manual layout code to do this.
With Auto Layout, it's a breeze.
So I'm just going to
select these two views.
And using the add
constraint menu down here,
I'm going to pin these widths equally.
And I'm going to do a similar
thing with the heights.
So I can just use this add constraint
menu down here in the bottom to
pin these guys proportionally.
And now when I resize my window, hmm,
still not doing quite what we want,
right?
This separator image here,
we kind of want to stick to the top,
and we don't want the image view
in these views to stay fixed.
If you look here,
I have an explicit height constraint.
I'm going to be talking more about
how to get rid of these later.
But what I'm going to do in this case,
I'm going to undo that
change first of all.
I'm going to select this separator.
I'm going to add a new one.
I'm going to add a top
spacing constraint.
When you're adding
constraints with this menu,
most of the time,
with the exception of these
two constraints in the bottom,
it's going to take an existing
relationship in the canvas and
freeze it into a constraint.
Now on top of that,
what it's going to do is it's
not going to remove any other
constraints in your document.
So if we look back at this image view,
this explicit height is still here,
but now it's a user constraint,
something that I can interact
with and I can delete.
And now when I resize my window,
[Transcript missing]
Let's select these guys and let's add
some vertical spacing constraints.
Now you might be asking,
or you might not be asking,
maybe you should,
is why would I be wanting to add all
these vertical spacing constraints
or constraints between views?
So this again is one of the powerful
features of Auto Layout is that you
can have constraints between siblings.
What's great about this is that as
the content of these siblings changes,
if they're bound to each
other through constraints,
then that way,
as the content of these views changes,
things won't overlap or clip
and that can be really great
and exactly what you want.
Okay, I'm going to do one thing special
with this bottom constraint here.
I'm going to show you another really
cool expressive feature of Auto Layout,
which I'm sure you
guys have already seen,
and that's inequalities.
So instead of saying I'm going to
make this constraint be 21 points,
for example,
I want to make this an inequality and
say make it be no more than -- sorry,
no less than 21 points
or some amount of space.
So if I select the constraint and
go into the attributes inspector,
I can change the relation here from
equal to greater than or equal,
and I'm also going to check
the standard check box.
The system, both UI kit and app kit,
have divinely defined a set of spacings
between different combinations of views,
so I want the system to determine
what that spacing should be,
so I'm going to check that check box.
And now when we run our application,
we're
You can see this is looking
a lot more reasonable.
Things are proportionally growing,
and things are looking really great.
So, so far we've gone in
the interface builder,
we've checked the box,
we've adjusted some constraints,
but we're not quite done, right?
When I click my add to itinerary button,
it's not doing the right thing anymore.
And this is because we've got
to go into code and change it.
So here's what we're going to do.
We have this box in my document
that's going to be our add to
itinerary box for what day I want to
add this landmark to my itinerary.
If we look at the constraints for this,
we just got a bunch of
spacings to the top,
and what I want to do is I'm
going to add a bottom spacing.
Here's why.
What I want is I want this view to
be able to fully specify its height.
Without this bottom constraint,
I could grab the bottom of this box
and resize it up over that content.
But by putting a bottom
spacing constraint here,
this means that there's at least
some size information that we have.
That way I don't have to
put an explicit width,
or rather explicit height on the
view to be able to define this.
So what we're going to do is we're
going to go and do a little bit of code.
And what we're going to do is we're
going to do a little bit of code in code,
which would mean that if
the box changed over time,
it wouldn't grow.
So that's why I'm going to define
this all right here in the box.
Okay,
so what we're going to do in code is
we're going to take this box here,
and we're going to insert it in between
this label and this top separator.
Again, just a really simple sentence.
We're going to insert
this in between two views.
So let's go look at the
code of how we did that.
Jump bar is a really, really great way to
navigate around in Xcode.
I found it to be very quick.
I'm going to show you
something else of the jump bar,
too.
In this talk,
I'm going to be inner sprinkling both
Auto Layout and then also little tidbits
and power tips for you Xcode users.
If I have a jump bar open right here,
I can just start typing,
and the jump bar will
automatically start filtering.
So I know I have a method in
here somewhere that's something
like open box of some kind.
And so by just typing with the menu open,
it'll automatically filter for me.
and I can jump right to the
method that I'm looking for.
All right.
So looking at this code,
what do we got here?
Well, it's really hard to look at this
code and see what's going on.
We're just basically getting a frame,
we're adjusting a bunch of other frames,
we're adding some deltas for some
views and doing a bunch of resizing.
This code is really hard to read,
hard to understand, and hard to maintain.
And what's great about
Auto Layout is I can just delete it.
And replace it with some more code.
So let's talk about that.
So the first thing I'm going to
do is I'm just going to add just
define some variables that we can
quickly reference as we go on.
Okay.
The first obvious thing,
we're going to add our
box to our container view,
right?
So it's actually in there.
And then the second thing,
once we have our container
view actually in there,
we want to add some
positioning constraints,
right,
so that it goes in the right place.
Now look at how the visual
format has helped us.
So in the horizontal direction,
what I'm saying is be the, you know,
Aqua space, be the box, Aqua space,
edge of the super view.
But remember,
I specifically repeated the statement
about the vertical dimension.
I said we want to insert our box in
between the title and the separator.
And that's exactly what
the code looks like.
There's no math.
There's no -- it's just
exactly what I said in English.
So it's really,
really easy to see exactly
what's going on here.
All right.
And now when we close
our add to itinerary box.
Again,
we're going to add a little bit of space.
Again, I had to undo all the work that
I was doing in the other method.
And this is just -- let's
just get rid of this.
And I can replace it
with one line of code.
Remove.
And that will automatically remove all
the constraints that I had and get that
box out of there and restore the layout.
So now when we run our application,
we're going
I'm going to click this and, ooh,
still doesn't do quite the right thing.
What's going on here?
So if you look in the console,
you can see that we have one of those
log messages that we've been talking
about in the different sessions.
So let's put on our debugging hat
and let's apply some of the things
that we were talking about in the
mastering on a layout session.
So this is a log message about unable
to simultaneously satisfy constraints.
So we have a bunch of constraints in
the window that can't all be satisfied.
Which ones?
The list right here.
So the very first one that I see here is
an auto resizing mask layout constraint.
So let's rewind to some
of the previous sessions.
And as a part of compatibility,
what Auto Layout will do by default
is that it will add constraints
that mimic the auto resizing mask.
Now,
one of the things we need to do is turn
off that feature so that if we're using
our own constraints for positioning,
they don't conflict with these
auto resizing mask constraints.
So it looks like I've forgotten
to set no for the translates auto
resizing mask into constraints
property on one of my views,
in particular on my box.
So looking in the code,
I can do it in one of two places.
I can set it right here in the code.
I can also do it in Interface Builder.
So if I go back to the zip
file here and I select my box,
open the Utilities and go
to the Attributes Inspector,
there's a checkbox right here called
Translates Mask into Constraints.
And this is, again,
that value of Translates
Autoprocessing Mask into Constraints.
It's set by default to yes
for all top-level views.
But in this case, I want it to be no,
so I can just uncheck it here.
When you would set it in code would be
if you wanted to program defensively.
For example, you had some API that took
a view from somewhere you
didn't know where it came from.
And so if you know you
want it to be set to no,
then just set it to no.
And that's what we're going to do.
We're going to do both
just to show you both here.
Okay, so now when I run,
we should be set, right?
I'm not forgetting anything.
Of course, this is a demo.
I would never forget anything.
Oh,
but it's still not doing the right thing.
So what's going on this time?
Let's go back and look
at the log message here.
Once again, we have an unable to
simultaneously satisfy constraints.
What's going on this time?
Let's take a look at this list of
constraints and see if we can get some
clues of what might be going on here.
Okay, so we said be some spacing
between the box and the separator.
Yep, I remember adding that constraint
with that visual format.
Same with this one.
I said make the box be
flush with that label.
Yep, that looks good.
And, huh, I don't ever remember
creating this constraint.
So have that separator image view
be 58 from the top of the view?
I don't remember.
Maybe I have a really short-term memory,
but I don't remember adding that.
So how might we find when that constraint
was created and added to the window?
There's a really useful performance
tool that you guys might
have used called Instruments.
Might have used it to do
for CPU or for memory.
It also includes a template
for debugging Auto Layout.
And you can see exactly when
different Auto Layout things
happen inside of your window.
So we're going to use
that to help us out here.
I'm going to go to profile here.
What this is going to do
is launch instruments.
I can choose the Cocoa layout template.
We're going to go ahead and profile.
Now it's going to launch
our application again.
And we can just go ahead
and reproduce the problem.
So, yup, there's our problem.
Let's go back to instruments.
And if you look at instruments,
we can see a trace of all the
Auto Layout activities happening
inside of the application,
this spike in particular was
where we reproduce our problem.
So I have all the data I need,
let's stop and take a look
at what's going on here.
So with this view,
I can see all the constraints that
were ever added to our windows.
And I can see their constants,
and I can see what it
was that was created,
added, it was removed from the window.
I can see who created it, very,
very useful data.
So let's use this to figure out
where that constraint came from.
So I'm going to switch to the console,
and that will show me exactly
the output from Xcode.
And we can see there's
our log message again,
unable to simultaneously
satisfy constraints.
And if I look through this list, yup,
I remember where that one came from,
but this is the constraint that we're
not quite sure where it came from.
So I'm going to copy the memory
address here just because
the constraint is unique.
And I'm going to go back
to the memory address.
And I'm going to go
back to the event list.
And I'm going to filter the
event list based upon this memory
address for this constraint.
And you can see that I get two hits,
two events.
One was created and one it
was added to the window.
So now we can see exactly where
this constraint came from.
To do that,
I'm going to open the extended detail
and make it a little bigger here.
And we can see a stack trace of exactly
who created this constraint and when.
So if we look through this stack trace,
you can see there's a call to NSNib
instantiate the view controller.
Okay, there's a pretty big clue.
And load view.
So it looks like this constraint
is coming from loading the
interface with the document
for one of our view controllers.
Which view controller?
Well, I can just double click on here
and get the code right here in
instruments and see the call
that loaded this view controller.
Then I can click here and jump right back
to Xcode and jump to the implementation
file that we were just looking at.
So this is the detailed view controller
that we were just working with,
and now I can see that the Nib
document for this view controller
has that constraint that was added.
So let's go figure out where
that is in our document.
So let's go ahead and open it up here.
And I don't remember which view is the
view that is the top separator anymore.
So I'm going to use the
outline view and filter for it.
Top separator.
And sure enough, there's our image view.
And if I select it,
it opens up in the canvas.
Now I'm going to look for -- I'm going
to go hunting for that constraint
that was the constraint that we
don't know where it came from.
And so I could click on every one
of these constraints or I could
use a new feature with Xcode 4.4.
If I have a view selected,
I can go in the size inspector
and see all the constraints
that involve that view.
So now I can see --
I can scroll over these.
You can see they highlight in the UI.
And there's the constraint that
was causing me difficulties,
the 58.
And so what do we want to do?
Now that we've identified
what the constraint is,
and I remember, yes,
I added that because I wanted
it to be pinned at the top.
And generally speaking, I do.
But when we add this box,
I want the image view to come down,
right?
And I want that box to slide in
between the title and the image view.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to add an outlet to this constraint.
And we're going to remove it in code
temporarily while that box is there.
And then we're going to add it
back after the box goes away.
So to do that,
I'm going to open up the assistant here.
So this is the code
for my view controller.
And I'm going to switch
to the implementation.
Scroll to the top.
And you can see in a class extension in
my implementation I have all my outlets.
This is to make sure that I'm
not vending these outlets to as
public API for my view controller.
And now I can just control
drag right from the constraint,
write in the code.
I'm going to give it a name,
like Separator to Label Constraint,
and make my outlet.
Great.
So now we can refer to this
constraint in our code.
Let's go back to the method
that we were looking at before.
And the first thing we want to do is
when we are opening our itinerary box,
we want to remove it so that
it doesn't conflict with the
constraints that we're adding.
So to do that, I'm just going to simply
call container view,
remove that constraint
that we made an outlet to.
Then when we close the box,
we want to restore that
because we want to restore the
UI back to its original state.
So I can just do this down in the close.
is the founder of the "button and text
field" method here that's going to
close the box on an add or a cancel.
And we're just going to add
that constraint right back
exactly how it was before.
And now, when I run my application,
Boom.
There it is.
Using Auto Layout, no more frames,
exactly as I laid it out in code,
and it goes away perfect.
So now our detail view controller and
our entire app is using Auto Layout.
We're good to go.
Okay.
So let's recap what we just saw.
So again, we planned our attack.
We chose a partial approach to convert
that last view controller to Auto Layout.
We went in, we enabled it in our
interface with a document,
we went through the constraints
in the document and adjusted
them to what we wanted,
added a few more.
Then we went into code,
we removed all of the set frame calls and
then we sanitized all the add sub view
remove super view calls to make sure that
they were consistent with Auto Layout and
they worked with our interface.
And then we tested it,
we ran it a few times and now
our app is looking pretty good.
A few best practices that we used when
we were doing this is first of all,
we want to avoid explicit widths.
I'm going to talk about this more,
so we're just going to skip over it.
Secondly,
we added those spacing constraints.
If you remember with those labels,
we added those spacing constraints so
that as the views would change size,
they would automatically would
grow relative to each other.
The other thing we did is we added
some more expressive constraints,
some inequalities and some things
that weren't possible with springs
and struts or at least really hard
and required manual layout code.
All right, so that's just a brief look at
transitioning to Auto Layout.
Let's talk now about explicit widths.
What do I mean by explicit widths?
Well, if I have an interface,
like the one on the screen,
That's what I mean by an explicit width.
It's a constraint that says
this view must be this size.
But why would this be a problem?
Generally speaking,
you want to avoid explicit widths on your
controls because with an explicit width,
it doesn't allow the control to
change size as the content changes.
We had talked about how with Auto Layout,
things will automatically grow
and shrink based upon content,
and when you add an explicit width,
it can't do that.
This can cause issues with localization
or dynamic content where things
can start clipping unexpectedly,
and that's definitely not the experience
that you guys want to give your users.
There are a few exceptions, of course,
I want to point out.
These are applied to both iOS
and AppKit exactly the same.
First, border text fields.
If you have like a password field and
your user is typing in their password,
you probably don't want the
view to be growing as the user
is typing in their password.
Same with image views.
Image views will actually want to be
the size of the image that you give it.
This can be very useful in cases,
but oftentimes you're going to throw
on some explicit width or height so
that the image view stays some size and
the image within it is just changing.
So those are just a few exceptions.
So how do I get rid of those
explicit wits when I don't want them?
I'm not going to answer that yet
and I'm going to talk a little bit
first about how Interface Builder
is generating constraints so we
can better answer that question.
What Interface Builder is doing
when you're working in IBE is it's
adding constraints for you which can
be really nice because it can save
you a lot of time but as you saw
we had to customize it a few times
and we wanted particular behaviors.
The set of constraints that
Interface Builder is generating
is the minimum best set.
There's an infinite number of
possibilities of constraints that
you could add to your interface.
And Interface Builder has a scoring
system for determining what we think
are most likely the ones that you're
going to want for a given situation.
So that's the first thing,
minimum and best set.
Secondly, we avoid two illegal cases
which is really important.
First, we avoid unsatisfiable constraints
due to like mutual exclusion.
For example,
you can't have a button that's both 15
and 20 points wide so we'll remove one
of those constraints for you so you
don't end up with a crash at runtime.
What we'll also do is we're
going to avoid ambiguity.
If there's not enough data to
fully satisfy a particular layout,
we're going to keep adding constraints
so that you don't run your application
and get undefined behavior.
This is where those
explicit widths come into.
And there's a couple cases that
might not be immediately obvious of
why those explicit widths come up.
So to show that,
we're going to go back to a demo.
All right.
So we're back in our app here.
And, you know,
everything is looking pretty good.
You know,
this is a little clipping going on here,
but that's just because
some views are overlapping.
But overall,
it looks like all the content
in our interface builder
document is not really clipping.
That's at least what it
appears at at first look.
Let's take a little deeper look.
I'm going to show you some really
useful debugging defaults that you
can use to help test your applications
and react to problems ahead of time.
So I'm going to go ahead and
edit the scheme that I have here.
I can either click this menu item
here or I can actually hold the option
key and click the run button and that
will also allow me to edit the scheme.
This is a default I'm going to turn
on called NS double localized strings.
What this is going to do,
it's going to take every string in
my interface and multiply it by two.
So, for example, this would mimic,
for example,
if you were to run your application
maybe under like a German localization
or some other really long
localization where words are longer.
And so I can perceive these
problems before they occur.
So let's see our app now
running with that turned on.
So if I run my app, ooh,
we're getting some clipping here.
These buttons look okay, but if I open,
we're getting some clipping here as well.
So with this default,
I can see how my interface
might react to some changes.
All right,
so let's go back into Interface Builder
and I'm going to show you three ways
that you can get rid of explicit widths.
Number one,
the first way to get rid of explicit
widths is to size the views in
an Interface Builder document
to their intrinsic content size.
I have two ways to do this.
One, I can just grab the resize
handle and resize it down.
You can see when I get down here,
it snaps into place and I get
these blue guides right here.
And that indicates that my view has
now reached its intrinsic content size.
And you can see the
explicit width is gone.
And now I can go ahead and
recenter that in my interface.
The other way I could have sized this
to fit is by going under the editor
menu and selecting size to fit content.
So that's way number one.
Now I'm going to take the opportunity
here to just add a few more constraints.
Now that my label is
going to be resizing,
I want to make sure it
doesn't occlude this button.
I know we've showed this demo lots,
but I think it's really cool and it
shows some of the power of Auto Layout.
So we're going to do -- we're
going to set the relation
to greater than or equal to.
And we're going to set
the standard space.
So make sure that that space
is always greater than or
equal to some standard space.
And then also I have an explicit
width on the share button.
And it looks like it's about the same
size as the add to itinerary button.
So I'm just going to make that
so by adding an equal width.
And you can see that explicit
width also goes away.
Okay.
So way number one, again,
is sizing to fit your content.
Now there might be cases where you
can't size to fit your content.
For example, a visual designer has
specified that in English,
for example,
this button must be 85 points,
for example.
So again, your visual designers might
have a different design in mind.
Let me undo that change.
In this case we're going to
employ technique number 2.
What I'm going to do here is I'm
going to take the relation of this
width constraint and I'm going to
change it to be greater than or equal.
What this is saying is that generally
speaking this button should be greater
than or equal to the current size,
which means if the content is
smaller than that it'll be that
greater than or equal to size,
but we're also affording the
button to grow in the case
that you go to a localization
that has really long strings.
It will allow it to grow,
but it won't get smaller than the
current size that we've just specified.
So that is way number 2 that you
can get rid of explicit widths.
So now we run our application.
You can see our tile looks great.
Push the window out to make it bigger,
more room.
And you can see our buttons
also look good as well.
So now we're going to take this
button and we're going to take
the width constraint and we're
going to make it look good as well.
So those are the first two ways in which
you can get rid of explicit widths.
For the third way,
I'm going to go back to our iOS
version and show you that there.
A lot of the topics that we're
talking about today are completely
synonymous between iOS and
AppKit because of the very,
very similar APIs that they share.
Okay, so we're going to look down
here in this label section for
the facts of this particular
landmark that might be selected.
And you can see I have two labels here,
and this one has an explicit width.
Now I'm just going to
size this thing to fit.
And you can see it still
has the explicit width.
So why?
Why is it that these two
labels are both being driven by
their intrinsic content size,
yet one of them has an explicit width?
This goes back to what we talked about
in the mastering Auto Layout session that
has to do with content hugging priority.
So by default,
views have a constraint inside of them
that is saying try to be this size.
You can kind of think about it this way.
If you have a label that's, like,
got some text in it and
you grow it really big,
you can think of the content
hugging priority as someone inside
of your view kind of pulling
on the edges of the view saying,
oh,
come back and be the size of my content.
So that's what's going on
here with our constraints.
We have these two views.
And as this container grows bigger,
it's ambiguous which label should grow.
Should they grow proportionally?
Should the one on the
left or the right grow?
And so what we want to do is we want
to indicate that one of these labels
should have a higher hugging priority.
It should pull harder
to be its content size.
So what I can do is I can just
select this bank of labels here.
And I want the kind of labels
to these facts to always,
always be the ones that stay put.
So if I switch to the size inspector here
and go to the content hugging priority,
what's important here is the
relative priority to the other thing.
What I have to do is make it higher
to indicate to the system I want
these labels to hug more closely.
They're very friendly labels.
All right, and now you can see,
if I zoom back into that label,
the explicit width is gone.
This is a tricky case and it's
definitely going to come up as
you guys are designing interfaces.
So the third way that we get rid of
explicit widths is by adjusting the
content-hugging priority of a view.
So I'm going to run this application
and we're going to take a look at how
this looks running in the simulator.
And you can see, huh,
still not quite right.
If I rotate to landscape,
you can see it looks good.
But in portrait,
things don't look quite right.
Why?
Let's go back to interface
builder and see why.
So there's content hugging
priority and there's also content
compression resistance priority.
And this is the exact opposite
of content hugging priority.
If you have that label that we
were talking about earlier and you
make it smaller than the content,
you can think of the content compression
resistance priority as someone inside
of you pushing on the wall saying,
"No, go back out to be the size so
you don't clip." By default,
we have this set pretty high.
But also by default,
the content compression resistance
priority of these two views is the same.
The actual value at this
point is not important.
So they both have the same content
compression resistance priority which
means if this container view that these
two labels are in gets small enough where
we have to clip content in both labels,
well, which one do we clip first?
That's ambiguous.
So what we want to do is we want to
select this bank of labels again.
And again, relative priorities is
what's important here.
I'm just going to increase it by
one which says I want to resist
compression more than those other labels.
So now when I run --
You can see I get exactly what I would
expect right here in my interface.
So those are the three ways in
which you can get rid of explicit
widths using Interface Builder.
Okay.
So let's just reiterate what we just saw.
So, again,
there are three ways we can get rid of
explicit widths in Interface Builder.
Again, we can size the content to fit.
If you can't do that,
you can change the relation of that
constraint to be greater than or equal.
And then also if those two don't work,
then you can also sometimes have cases
where you have to adjust the content
hugging or compression resistance
priorities of the different views.
So those are the three ways
you can get rid of explicit
widths in Interface Builder.
All right.
Let's talk about localization.
So let's talk about
localization before AutoLayout.
So you as a developer,
you have your interface with a document,
and it's great because all you have to
worry about is your development region.
Let's just use English as
an example here.
But then your marketing
team comes and says,
well, we really want to localize
the application into French,
Spanish, German,
and a bunch of other languages.
So you go, OK, well,
I'm just going to make a bunch of copies
of my interface with the documents.
And I'm going to go change the
strings in those documents for
each one of those languages.
And right now we've created this barrier,
this divide between your
original engineering document
and all the localized documents.
Now this is fine if nothing changes.
But as we know, that's not the case.
Things always change.
So now you have to go and you
have to make a change to your
development time document.
So you're going to make your change.
And now you have a
synchronization problem.
You have to get all the changes
that you've made to your new
development document into all
those localized documents as well.
This is where the three-way
merge process with Interface
Builder would come into play.
We would merge all the diffs from the
different ones into a new document.
And then we would have to do the
same thing with the other documents.
Now as many of you
might have experienced,
this can be error prone
and can cause issues.
And it can be a lot of work to
maintain all of the different
changes between all the files.
We can do better with Auto Layout.
So again we're going to start with
this development time document and
instead of creating new documents when
you want to localize your application,
new interface with the documents,
you're going to create a
bunch of strings files.
For those of you who are not
familiar with strings file,
a strings file is just a
list of key value pairs.
The key being some view and interface
builder and some property and then
the value being the actual string
value and whatever language you have.
So now when you need to make a change
to your development time document,
you go ahead and make the change.
And let's say all you change
is the font color of something.
Well, previously you'd have to regenerate
all of the localized documents.
But because we're using strings files,
we don't have to touch anything.
Everything just works.
Now if you were to add a new view,
let's say a new button that had a new
string and you need to localize that,
it's very,
very easy just to use textual diff
and to apply and get some new strings
files that contain those new strings.
We think this is going
to be pretty great.
And so let's talk about how this actually
works a little bit more under the hood.
So when you build your project,
we take a zip file and we turn it
into a compiled document that we
actually ship with your application.
So now you have your compiled
document and then you also have
a bunch of strings files for each
one of the different languages.
Now, what's actually on disk is
you have a folder in your
resources for each language,
and this contains the localized
resources for each language.
In this case,
we're going to stick the strings file
for your interface into that language.
So how does this work and
interact at actual runtime?
Let's look at an example.
We've introduced a new
localization called Base.
And this, you can kind of think of it as
your development time localization.
It doesn't even need to be English.
It could just be what your
engineers use to talk.
I talk in a very different
English than the people that are
writing the strings for our interface.
So you could have an actual
English localization that
also does this as well.
So Base is just where your
interface documents are going to go,
and then the strings files are going
to go into each of the different
languages that you localize.
So what happens at runtime is we have,
let's say, a Mac running in English,
and so we're going to look
for that English interface,
and we don't see anything,
so we're going to fall back and use Base.
We load the Base interface
with the document.
It's got our English strings.
We're good to go.
But what about having, let's say,
an iPad that's running in German?
Well, in this case,
we're going to go look
in the German file,
and we're going to find
those strings files,
but there's no layout
information in a strings file.
So where does the interface come from?
In this case,
we're going to fall back to base,
and we're going to grab
the interface out of base.
So now what happens?
At runtime,
when you actually run your application,
it's going to take the strings,
and it's just going to
substitute them into your base
interface builder document.
Well, isn't that going to cause all
kinds of clipping and issues?
Well, if you're using Auto Layout,
everything just works because
everything will reflow,
and your layout will look
beautiful in all the languages
that you've localized in.
And let's look at a demo of this.
All right.
So I have my storyboard here.
And this is the storyboard for
iOS variant of the application.
And I'm going to show you that
I only have one storyboard
in this entire project.
And then I have a bunch of strings files.
I have one for German and
I have one for Arabic as well.
Let me open the assistant and
show you a new category that we've
added to the assistant to help
you working with localizations.
If you pop this open
and go to localizations,
you can see all the strings files
for the interface builder document
that you have in the primary editor.
So you can see, for example, in German,
our share button is
going to turn into that.
So let's run the application.
and see this at work.
So now the simulator is going to load
our base storyboard document and it's
going to take the German string files and
it's going to substitute them right in.
And there we go.
Beautiful.
One story board, bunch of strings files.
It gets better.
All right.
So let's go -- and I'm going to -- I'm
just really passionate about sharing.
So we're just going to duplicate
this string a bunch of times
because I really like sharing.
And maybe your designers are
having a day and they say,
well, we want you to go in and we
want you to change the color
of all these labels to be,
I don't know, bright blue.
And then maybe you want to add a progress
indicator to this image view to show
the progress of the image as it grows.
So I'm just going to grab a
progress view and just drop it
right here into the document.
Now at this point,
all I'm going to do is hit command R.
I'm not going to generate any new files.
I'm not going to generate
any new localizations at all.
And you can see the strings
changes come right in.
My interface changes come in
all without having to do any
synchronization across my strings files
or my interface builder documents.
And we think that's really great.
But it gets better.
All right.
So we're going to go ahead and show
you a little bit of the process.
And we're going to go ahead and show
All right.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm going
to switch my system language into Arabic.
Arabic is a language that is read
right to left versus left to right.
So we want everything in the
UI to layout right to left.
With Auto Layout,
this couldn't be easier.
If I run my application, again,
I only have one interface
with a document for this view.
You can see every single thing in
my interface automatically flips.
Not only do I get the
Arabic localizations
and the text flipping.
So not a single line of code for a very,
very powerful layout.
Now as you can see,
it's not doing quite what I expect,
right?
This gradient view over here that
indicates the separation between
my splitview is also flipping,
even though the splitview,
which due to what we say
for HI says not to flip,
the gradient is also flipping.
But we don't really want to do that.
So why is it flipping?
Let's go into interface
builder and find out.
Let's open the main menu.
That has our splitview in it.
All right.
So now I can select this gradient
view and go over to the size
inspector and I can see there's
our trailing space that we have.
And using the gear here I can just
go ahead and select and edit it.
Now by default all the constraints
in interface builder and in
the visual format language are
going to be leading to trailing.
Leading to trailing you can kind of
think about the natural text direction.
Based upon what language you're
running in the constraints
will flip orientations.
So for left to right it will
flip versus from left to right.
But what I want to do is
I actually want to say that this
constraint should never flip.
So I can explicitly tell the direction
to be explicitly left or left and
right versus leading and trailing.
And so if I were to
run my application in,
for example, Arabic,
now my gradient does not flip
and it stays right there.
So this is really,
really powerful for you guys as you're
working on right to left localizations.
So that's what I wanted to
show you with localization.
Let's go back to slides.
So again, with the localization,
the new base localization,
it's where your interface-based
documents are going to go to.
We've also provided an override,
so you can create an interface-based
document for a language if you have,
like, special UI you want to
have for your French users,
for example, or maybe for another region.
You can actually have an
interface-based document for just that
language that will be an override,
but then you'll need to use the
three-way merge process to make sure
that those changes get back into those
documents that are synchronized across.
Okay, and then we have string files,
one per localization.
At runtime, we're going to take the
strings from that localization,
we're going to stick them into the base
localization interface with a document,
and Auto Layout takes care of the rest.
For availability,
this is available for iOS 6 and
OS X Mountain Lion going forward.
All right, so that's localization.
And looking back over the three
things that we've just talked about,
explicit widths, spacing constraints,
localization,
we're talking about the main
takeaway for this session,
which is thinking ahead.
With Auto Layout,
as things can react to changes,
it's important that you guys
are thinking ahead of how your
interface could change over time.
For example,
in our app we had this fax area
in the bottom and the labels were
changing and it had different content.
So we want to think about
as the strings changed,
what would the interface do?
Or if you have device rotation,
if you're writing an iOS application.
Or as we just saw with localization,
strings can drastically change.
So also as we showed you,
we've added a few debugging
defaults to help you anticipate
some of these changes.
I'm not going to explain
all of them here,
but we saw the doubling of the strings,
and you can also see,
as we saw in the second session,
the one from this morning,
you can also mimic running in a
right-to-left language without actually
switching your system into that language.
All right, so that's what I want to
cover with localization.
We've got two topics left,
and then we'll get you guys off to lunch.
All right,
so let's talk about some new API.
And really what I'm going to
focus on here is the new splitview
API with OS X Mountain Lion.
This is really, really going to help you
guys as you're developing
applications that use splitviews.
So before I dive into that,
I want to talk just a really
refresher on priorities to make sure
that we've squared away with those.
So again,
priorities are for expressing either
required or optional behaviors.
If you lower the priority of something,
you're saying that this is optional.
For example,
we're looking at the content hugging
and compression resistance priorities,
and those are constraints
that are internal to the
view that are implementing
that using a priority system.
Okay, well,
let's talk about that a little bit more.
By default, constraints are going to
have a required priority.
So 1,000.
This means it must be fulfilled.
It must be satisfied.
If you lower the priority
anything less than 1,000,
what the system is going to do
is it's going to try as hard as
it can and get as close as it can
to fulfilling that constraint.
I like to think of the example
of Auto Layout as kind of like
gravity pulling rain down.
And you might have, like, you know,
buckets of constraints that
might catch the rainwater.
But generally,
the rain is falling down as
Auto Layout is trying to get as close
to that solution as it possibly can.
And the system also has
some predefined constraints,
and so we're going to be talking
a little bit about those.
And again, to show this,
the best place is with a demo.
All right.
So we got our application here.
And one of the things that we
can do is we can grab these
splits and we can make them zero.
That's not exactly what we want to do.
Right?
Also, as you can see,
as I resize this window,
you can see the splits are kind
of growing kind of proportionally.
And it's doing a little funny behavior.
So if I were writing this
with manual layout code,
I would go in and I would override
all the delegate methods for
NS split view and write a bunch
of code to set minimum sizes and
react to these different changes.
I don't have to write
any code in this demo.
We're going to do it all
in Interface Builder.
So let's go take a look.
So back here in my splitview,
the first thing I want to do is add
some minimum sizes to those splits.
This is as easy as adding
a single constraint.
So I'm going to select the split
over here and I'm going to add a
width constraint for the split.
Now, I could drill down in
here and try to select it,
but Interface Builder pro tip:
If I hold control and
shift or shift right click,
I can get a menu of every single
object under the mouse at this point.
This makes it really easy to select
objects that might be occluded.
So I can go down here and I'm
going to select very easily,
I can see that I want to
select this source list split.
So I'm going to select this and I'm going
to go to my add constraint menu here
and I'm going to add a width constraint.
So I can add this directly to
the split of the splitview.
And now I'm going to change the
relation to greater than or equal
and I'm going to set this to 200.
And now this split will not
get any smaller than 200.
Let's do the same thing in our
other splitview for the detail area.
and that's in an interface with a
document called split view controller.
And again,
I'm going to select that split.
I'm going to add the width constraint,
and in the attributes inspector
change the relation to
greater than or equal to 200.
All right,
so now these guys have got minimum sizes.
Let's talk about now
the proportional sizing.
We really don't want the split
view to grow proportionally.
What I really want is I want the
source list to stay fixed most of
the time as I'm resizing the window.
Then the next thing that's important
to me would be the list of landmarks.
And then finally that detail
area I'd want to fluidly
resize as I resize the window.
There's new API on NS split view
called holding priority where you
can set the priority at which a split
view maintains its current width.
So if I select the split view
and open the size inspector,
you'll notice some new
UI up here in the corner.
By default, the splits are going to have
all the same holding priorities,
which means the split view will
resize proportionally as I resize it.
But that's not what I want.
What I want to do here is I want to
say that one split should hold its
width stronger than another split.
All I have to do is increase this by one,
and now the split on the left
is going to hold that priority
stronger than the other split.
So I'm going to go back and do
the same thing in my main menu.
Let's select that splitview.
Go to our size inspector.
Now what I'm going to do here is I want
to interact with that other splitview.
What's great about Auto Layout is I can
interact with all the views in my window.
So before we set those
splits to 250 and 251,
what's important here is
setting relative priorities.
I want to make sure that these priorities
are higher than those so that these
hold stronger than those other ones.
So I'm just going to be
safe to go up to 255.
And I'm going to set the
other split to be 254.
And now the splitview,
the source list here,
is going to hold stronger
than any of the other splits.
So now when I run my application,
first of all,
I can grab these and they stop
resizing when I hit a minimum width.
And as I resize my window,
you can see it's doing exactly what
I would expect as far as the splitviews.
Now let me point something else out here.
The window stops resizing
at a certain point.
Now I didn't set any
minimum size for that split,
so how did that happen?
And this is where Auto Layout is
kicking in and it's saying,
well, we don't want to make any of
the constraints that you've
specified unsatisfiable.
All the constraints,
a lot of the constraints we specified
are required and it's going to hold
those and it's even going to stop
resizing the window and resize the window
if it needs to in order to make that
happen without writing any code at all.
And that's really cool.
So we're going to dive into
this and make it even better.
So I kind of want to be able to
drag this a little bit smaller,
right?
I want this title to go over,
and I want this text here
to be able to be clipped.
Right now it's not
allowing it to be clipped.
So let's go into Interface Builder
and make these adjustments.
So I'm going to go to my
detail view controller.
And I'm going to go ahead
and change the text here to
something a little bit larger.
And you can see the behavior as
I resize and interface whether
it's doing what we would expect,
it's stopping at that point.
So the first thing I want to
do is adjust the priority of
this centering constraint.
So let's go over to the attributes
inspector and set the priority.
But what should I set it to?
Up to this point we've worried about
relative priorities but at this
point we have to pick something else.
This is where the system predefined
priorities come into play.
There's a couple that are coming into
play here and I want to show them to you.
I'm going to open up the header
that describes these just so
that I can point them out to you.
Now what I'm going to do, though,
is I want to open this side
by side with my interface.
So I'm going to show you Xcode Pro Tip.
If I hold down Option and Shift, again,
Option and Shift,
when I hit the return key,
it's going to show me a little HUD.
And this HUD allows me to target where
I want the file that I'm opening to go.
For example,
I can say open in a new window,
open in the current split,
open in a new tab,
or open in a new split.
If I had other splits,
I could target an existing split,
or I could target a split in another tab.
So it's a really,
really easy way to quickly open
the files that you want to look at.
So there's a bunch of different
predefined priorities here,
and I want to point out just a few.
One, the required one.
Again,
this is the priority that means this
constraint should not be broken.
The next one I want to point out is 500,
which is the size at which the
window is going to stay put.
If I have a constraint greater than that,
it will resize the window to
accommodate that constraint.
If it's less than 500,
it's going to allow the
window to get smaller,
and it will break that constraint.
This number also looks familiar,
and this is that value that
we were using for our holding
priorities for our splitview.
So what I want to do is I want to
pick a priority between the window
resizing priority and this priority
so that the splitview will still hold,
but the window will get smaller and it
will break that centering constraint.
So I'm going to set it to 400.
So let me reset the
Assistant and close it.
And let's set this to 400.
The other thing I want to do is
I want to select these labels,
like I pointed out as well,
and I want the content in these
labels to be able to get clipped.
So let's go back to the size
inspector and set this to 250,
which means don't prevent the window from
resizing in order to show our content.
And now when we run our application,
You can see it's doing
exactly what we would expect
outside of this label up here,
but you can see we're
allowed to go off center.
So let's go back and let's just do
two more constraints to show you
really some more power of Auto Layout.
I'm still wasting some space,
and I'm going to get rid of that space.
So first we're going to add this
leading constraint to our view.
Again, we want to make this be greater
than or equal to the standard space,
a common constraint that you'll
be adding as you want views
to not occlude each other.
And then what I want to do
is I want these buttons,
if the space is really tight,
to actually stop being an equal width.
But at what point?
So I want it to break after the
centering constraint is already broken.
So we set the other constraint to 400.
We're going to set this one to 401.
Again, a lot of setting constraints is
setting things relative to each other.
So in this case,
I'm going to set it to 401.
And now when I run my application,
check this out.
When I resize my window smaller,
it's going to stop and look at
that equal sizing constraint.
gets taken down.
Just look at this interface.
Imagine trying to write this using
manual code with the existing splitview.
That would be really hard.
But with Auto Layout,
I didn't write a single line of code.
All right, let's go back to slides.
So the API that I just
showed you is the new holding
priority API for NS splitview,
which allows you to do incredibly
complex layouts using Auto Layout and
the new splitview in OS X Mountain Lion.
There's also some new text wrapping
APIs you might want to check out,
look it up in the documentation.
Those are also really great and
will help you a lot as you're
developing your applications.
All right,
so I want to talk about one more thing,
and that's animation.
And the best place to do this
is to go back and do a demo.
Now, instead of writing all
the code this time,
I actually have the code
already all written,
and I'm just going to run the
application and show you how it works.
There's a few just -- a couple
key concepts to keep in mind as
we're working with animation,
and I just want to point those out.
So here's our view.
And before,
our add to our itinerary button,
that box that came down,
was not animated.
But now you can see it
beautifully animates in.
So how does this work?
In this particular case,
the entire application is using the
layer backing support that's added
enhanced in OS X Mountain Lion,
and it's using that layer backing
support and core animation to
do this beautiful animation.
Let's see how it works.
So I'm going to go back to
the implementation for our
OS X detail view controller,
which is this guy right here.
And once again,
I'm going to use the jump bar
to navigate to our open method.
So just a couple key concepts
to take into effect here.
When you're animating,
using core animation on OS X,
and the same with iOS,
the concepts are the same.
The first thing you're going to
want to do is set up the constraints
for the layout that you want,
and then critical piece here,
you're going to call layout immediately.
So you're going to set
up all the constraints,
it's going to layout immediately,
and that's going to be
your starting position.
Then what you're going to do is you're
going to run an animation group.
Inside of the animation group,
you want to turn this property on.
And this says any frame changes that
are made automatically animate them.
So now we're going to make our
changes to our constraints.
In this case,
what I'm doing is I'm putting the
box inside of a container so that
it will resize down from zero.
At the end of this animation,
what I want it to be is I want the box
inside of it to be pinned to the bottom
so that it fills that full height.
So go ahead and add those constraints.
And then critical piece
of information again,
we're going to call layout one more time.
So this will force layout
to happen immediately.
And because we're inside
of this animation block,
all those frame changes are
going to get caught in the
animation and seamlessly animate.
With iOS, it's the exact same thing.
So let's jump over to iOS real
quick and let's take a look.
So if we go back to our
other view controller...
You can see we're doing
the exact same thing.
We're setting up some constraints.
We're calling layout if needed.
We're going into our UIView
animate with duration.
And in this case,
it's already turning on the
implicit animation for us.
I'm specifying some new
constants for my constraints.
And then I'm laying out immediately.
And what this is going to do is this
is going to animate my view for me
just by changing the constraints.
So if we launch our
application in the simulator,
we can see this happening.
So if I click on this
full screen button here,
you can see the map view animates
beautifully up to full size.
And if I dismiss it, it comes back down.
And that's the demo for animation.
So let's read it right here.
Just a couple really core
pieces to keep in mind here.
If you're targeting OS X Lion,
you can use the animation proxy
for NSLayoutConstraint to animate
without using layer backing.
And that's a great way to do that.
Again, that's available on
OS X Lion and OS X Mountain Lion.
If you're using layer
backing in your applications,
either on OS X or you're using
UIViews on your iOS application,
you're going to want to use one
of the run animation groups or
animate with duration blocks.
Before you go into that block,
you're going to call layout if needed
to get those initial positions.
Then you're going to make
your constraint changes.
Maybe you add constraints,
change some constants, whatnot.
And then inside of the animation block,
you call layout if needed.
That's the critical piece of
information you need to know
as you're doing animation.
Layout, enter the animation,
do your changes, layout again.
All right.
So that was quite a whirlwind
tour of some different features.
And the take way that I want to
go back to is thinking ahead.
Again this is really important as
you're developing your interfaces.
You can have dynamic content at runtime.
You can have device rotation or
window resize or localization.
These are all things that
can change your content.
So as you're using Interface Builder,
as you're using Auto Layout,
as you're writing it in code,
be thinking about these things.
You can use those helpful debugging
defaults to help you perceive
those changes ahead of time.
If you have more information,
you can contact one of our evangelists.
They'll be able to help you with
all your questions about the
frameworks or about the tools.
Check out the documentation for
OS X and for iOS for the human
interface guidelines or for Auto Layout.
Again, it's great because the API is
pretty much exactly the same.
If you're watching the videos
or you're going to go watch the
videos in a couple weeks from now,
check out these two sessions,
the introduction to
Auto Layout session and the best
practices for mastering Auto Layout.